To recap what we discussed earlier,
we have this class keyword now,
since I believe 2015 or so, in JavaScript,
that provides that nice kind of more
familiar-feeling way of declension.
layering kinds of objects in
a sense that's more similar
to how they might be defined in
languages like Java or the other
kind of classical inheritance-based
object-oriented languages.
So, just to review some syntax.
When we want to declare a new
class like a meme, for example,
very important class to
have in your programs.
We want to have a will have the class, the
name of the class capitalized convention
and then the curly braces kind of define
what's gonna belong to this class.
So we have a constructor method
always that is going to set
up some properties on the this object,
which is going to be the instance
object when we instantiate the class.
Which we can do with the new keyword,
just like we did with new date.
So same vibes and in this case we
can make a fancy pool meme and
fancy pool will be super fancy and
everyone will be happy.
Great.
Okay, so again just reviewing we can
also define instance methods by,
we don't have to use the function keyword.
We can just type the name of the function,
any arguments it takes in and
then define whatever we wanted it to do.
So, for example, I can make poo laugh,
with a lull method,
which very helpfully logs
to the console.lololol.
So this is just an example obviously, but
we can define whatever instance
methods we need there.
And we can also override methods of, let's
say, the kind of built-in to two-string,
or anything that might come from a parent
class, because we can also extend classes.
Get to that in a second but
we an essentially
intercept that prototype chain,
lookups here.
Again, every object is going to ultimately
have at the top of its food chain or
prototype chain, it's going to have object
to object, everybody's favorite object.
And so those methods like to string and
whatnot we can override and if there are
other prototypes up the prototype chain.
We can also override those as well by
declaring whatever instance methods we
need here.
And again, we use that this
keyword to refer to the instance.
So that's how we get this
particular memes text.
Okay, one thing we also might encounter,
and
this will be familiar to folks who
have worked with other languages,
again, like the more
traditional OOP languages.
Is that we can declare getter and
setter functions that
JavaScript will basically
use to pretend that an object
has a property that I
can access with the dot
notation that I'm used to.
So if I have a, let's say,
a more complicated property that
needs a little processing, or maybe I
want to do some kind of check on it.
I can define a get and
a set with these little keywords function
that is the name of the property
that I want it to have.
And then I will be able to
access fancypoo.imageType.
And it will give me the return value,
for example, in this case,
were splitting out the name of
the image path to separate it into
the name of the file and
the extension of the file.
And so if I try to access imgType,
it will spit out the,
In just the jpg part of this file, so for
example, this is a tiny example of course,
but you can have kind of
more complex operations.
You can expose data from instance
objects through a property
that is indirectly accessed
through the dot notation.
So you can do a little processing you
can do some checks X, for example.
And we can also, with the sector,
we can use that to assign
a new value to the property.
And under the hood,
JavaScript is going back and
doing whatever else it needs to do.
So in this case, it's actually
going into the image property and
also updating that because of
the way that we've set this up.
So if I assign a new value,
like PNG to the image type property,
then later when I want to look up
the value of the image property and
not just image type.
I will see that, okay,
we've done some processing,
we've messed with the data
of this particular instance.
So for those more used to
kind of that mental model of
protecting the good old
encapsulation idea of trying
to protect the internals
of the object from use.
By whoever out there in the world randos
on the Internet, we can't have that.
So if there's any processing or
any secret kind of data that needs
to be used or anything like that.
That can be put in these kind of fancier
getter-setter methods, which then
expose whatever data you want to users as
if it was a regular JavaScript property.
So full extra fanciness
a little tuxedo for us.
Okay another thing that,
again sometimes might be useful for
that encapsulation idea that is coming
from object-oriented programming is.
Sometimes you want private
data that only can be
accessed from internal
processing functions
within this object, within this class.
So, for example, I can have
a private property called image.
I can make my image property
private by putting the hash symbol,
pound, whatever we call it these days,
in front of the property name.
And JavaScript interprets that specially.
And note, this is not like in quotes,
in a string.
This is actually, we're just, .pound,
is what we're typing when we access
this property, and that is only going
to work within this class definition.
So, if I try and
access that on an instance object,
uh-uh, JavaScript says,
uh-uh, not allowed.
So, let's see how this works, and
it's the same for methods as well.
Well, so for
example here I've updated the constructor.
So now we're keeping the image a secret
and we've made it private property.
And one other note is that you need to so
we saw earlier that you can declare which
properties an object is gonna have on
that above that construct line at
the beginning of the class declaration.
You don't have to if there
are public properties,
JavaScript all just figure
it out expose them.
But for private properties,
you do need to declare them up there
before the constructor definition, so
that then you can use them in the rest of
your methods including the constructor.
So just one note there, and
this one might be missing the whisper,
[LAUGH] which was added later, the yeah.
Again, the getters and setters then
could expose that private data,
that private property,
by pulling that data in and
then returning whatever, or
doing the set operation.
And so in this case, we've got
an image property via these getter and
setter functions so
that a user is gonna be able to access
this data by .image and
not .hashimage emerged.
Anyway, so
this is how we can kind of use that
secret data private
properties within our code.
And okay, sorry.
And yes, the same works for methods.
For example, I can have a public method
that's like, yelling what the text is in
uppercase, but I could also have a private
method that's just secretly whispering.
And this is just called once
in the constructor, but
this will only be able to be called
from within this class definition.
Okay so what this all means for
your user of your beautifully laid out,
very well thought out API of
this object that you've created,
that's very important because
people need their memes.
Isn't that what we're building the web for
anyway?
It's basically a meme hosting
cat GIF hosting solution.
So, okay, so
if we now have our fancy poo and
we try to access the .image
property doesn't exist.
And if I try to access
the private hash image property,
I actually get an error
JavaScript like no,
not only like that image is image
without the hash is undefined.
So regular JavaScript
undefines everywhere.
But the hash image will give an error if
I'm trying to access it outside of that
class declaration.
However, because of those getter and
setters, I can access the .image property.
And I can set a new value,
thanks to my setter function, which then,
internally, the class declaration is
telling itself how to process that.
And how to use the private property under
the hood, but it stays under the hood.
I only expose what I want via
that public property image.
I'm just emphasizing
the difference [LAUGH] here.
And likewise, for methods, hash
whisper won't work, I'll get an error,
but I can yell from just anywhere.
Maybe it should have been reversed, but
this is why we have to be thoughtful about
what we expose [LAUGH] to our users.
In any case, okay so for those folks
coming from that more object oriented
paradigm, where we have concepts like
encapsulation where the idea is.
Do you want the object to expose
an interface, to users that abstracts away
whatever internal mechanisms are going
on under the hood to make it work?
And so that's kind of a big, a big mood
[LAUGH] in object-oriented programming and
JavaScript now, again, with that
interesting kind of circular influence of
the Java language throughout the decades.
Not just Java, but
similar languages as well,
allows us to do that now with
this hash private property stuff.